# Structs or Structured Data

## In rust, structs are similar to C structs with some differences. Similar to objects in other languages, structs in Rust are a way to group together related data. However, unlike objects, structs in Rust do not have methods associated with them. Instead, methods are defined on types using impl blocks.

## Here is an example:
```rust
struct User {
    active: bool,
    username: String,
    email: String,
    sign_in_count: u64,
}

fn main() {
    let mut user1 = User {
        active: true,
        username: String::from("someusername123"),
        email: String::from("someone@example.com"),
        sign_in_count: 1,
    };
    user1.email = String::from("anotheremail@example.com");
}
```

### We can access the fields of a struct using the dot notation. To change the value of a field, we need to use the mut keyword. Note that we can only change the value of a field if the entire variable is mutable. If we try to change the value of a field on an immutable variable, we will get a compile-time error.

## We can also create a custom constructor function for the struct, ex:
```rust
fn build_user(email: String, username: String) -> User {
    User {
        active: true,
        username, // since we are using the same name as the field, we can use the shorthand syntax
        email,
        sign_in_count: 1,
    }
}
```

## Creating Instances from Other Instances with Struct Update Syntax:
```rust
fn main() {
    // --snip--

    let user2 = User {
        active: user1.active,
        username: user1.username,
        email: String::from("another@example.com"),
        sign_in_count: user1.sign_in_count,
    };

    // or we can just do this
    let user3 = User {
        email: String::from("another@example.com"),
        ..user1
    };
}
```
### As you can see, we can use the shorthand syntax to create a new instance of a struct from an existing instance. This is useful when we want to create a new instance of a struct with the same values as an existing instance, but with some fields changed.


## Tuple Structs
```rust
struct Color(i32, i32, i32);
struct Point(i32, i32, i32);

fn main() {
    let black = Color(0, 0, 0);
    let origin = Point(0, 0, 0);
}
```

## As you can see, we don't have to define the variable name for the fields of a struct. We can just use the values directly. Such structs are called tuple structs. They are useful when we want to group data together without having to define a custom type.

## Unit like structs
```rust
struct AlwaysEqual;

fn main() {
    let subject = AlwaysEqual;
}
```
## You can also create a struct that doesn't have any fields. Such structs are called unit like structs. They are useful when we want to create a struct that doesn't have any fields.
## Unit-like structs can be useful when you need to implement a trait on some type but don’t have any data that you want to store in the type itself. More on this in future.


# We still haven't learnt how to use **Reference types** in a **Structs**. It's for future as its a bit complex. Maybe in Automated tests section.
