# Variables and Mutability

## As we already know, variables are immutable by default. This is because Rust is a language that values safety and performance. However, there are times when we want to change the value of a variable. To do this, we need to declare the variable as mutable.


# Constants

## Similar to immutable variables, constants are also immutable by default. However, unlike immutable variables, constants can only be assigned a value at compile time. This is because constants are not allowed to be assigned a value at runtime, as this would make the program less predictable and harder to debug.
## You can't use **mut** keyword in constants.
## Naming convention for const variables is UPPER_SNAKE_CASE. Ex:
```rust
const THREE_HOURS_IN_SECONDS: u32 = 60 * 60 * 3;
```


# Shadowing

## Shadowing is a feature in Rust that allows you to declare a new variable with the same name as an existing variable. This can be useful when you want to change the type of a variable or when you want to reuse a variable name in a nested scope.


# Two major differences between shadowing and mutability

## To do shadowing, reusing **let** keyword is necessary. And also we can change the type of variable by shadowing.
## In mutability we can just re-assign a new value of same type to the variable. This might become unsafe if we are not careful.


# For example:
## This is valid:
```rust
let spaces = "   ";
let spaces = spaces.len();
```

## This is invalid:
```rust
let mut spaces = "   ";
spaces = spaces.len();
```
