# References and Borrowing

## Instead of creating a new variable, we can use a reference to the existing variable. For example:
```rust
fn main() {
    let x = String::from("hello");
    let y = &x;
    let size = calculate_size(&x);

    println!("Here, x is {} and y is {} with size {}", x, y, size);
}

fn calculate_size(s : &String) -> usize {
    s.len()
}
```
### This even saves so execution time and memory usage.

- ## is called referencing and & is called dereferencing.
- ## is called borrowing and & is called returning a reference.


## To change a value of a complex type variable (like Strings which get stored in Heap) from another function, we need to make them mutable and send their mutable address to the function. Ex:
```rust
fn main() {
    let mut x = String::from("Hello");
    change_value(&mut x);
    println!("The value of x is {x}");
}

fn change_value(x : &mut String) {
    x.push_str(", world");
}
```
## Such addresses are called as **Mutable References**.


# Borrowing Rules

## We can't borrow same variable multiple times, be it mutable or immutable borrowing, more than once isn't accepted. Ex:
```rust
let mut s = String::from("hello");
let r1 = &mut s;
let r2 = &mut s;
println!("{r1}, {r2}");
```
### Here since s is already borrowed by r1, we cannot borrow it again and send it to r2, if done it throws an error.
### We can borrow s to r2 only when r1 goes out of scope or gets assigned something else.

# This is done to prevent **Data race**, other languages allow this which leads to race conditions, and behaviours like -
- ## Two or more pointers access the same data at the same time.
- ## At least one of the pointers is being used to write to the data.
- ## There’s no mechanism being used to synchronize access to the data.

# **We can pass as many immutable references as we want but we can't do mutable&immutable or multiple immutable references passing**
# This is valid btw
```rust
let mut s = String::from("hello");

let r1 = &s; // no problem
let r2 = &s; // no problem
println!("{r1} and {r2}");
// Variables r1 and r2 will not be used after this point.

let r3 = &mut s; // no problem
println!("{r3}");
```

## Dangling References:
### Dangling references mean a pointer that references a location in memory that may have been given to someone else—by freeing some memory while preserving a pointer to that memory. In Rust, by contrast, the compiler guarantees that references will never be dangling references: if you have a reference to some data, the compiler will ensure that the data will not go out of scope before the reference to the data does.

### Here is an example, having a address with actual data going out of scope is prevented by Rust by giving valid errors
```rust
fn main() {
    let reference_to_nothing = dangle();
}

fn dangle() -> &String {
    let s = String::from("hello");

    &s
}
```



# Key takaways
- ## At any given time, you can have either one mutable reference or any number of immutable references.
- ## References must always be valid.
